README.md, before:

# Crypto Workbook

## Compiling

```sh
latexmk             # Compile the document
```

## Cryptocamp 2025

"Cryptocamp" is a 3.5 day event that attempts to teach developers the basics of provable cryptography. We have a workbook that consists of cryptographic definitions, propositions, proofs and exercises. The goal is to make the event interactive, fun and educational.

### Requirements
- Room with enough space to have groups of two that can work together without causing too much chaos.
- Projector to project the workbook on large screen.
- To share solutions to exercises, we'd ideally have an Ipad with Apple pen (or similar) connected to the projector. I can bring the Ipad.
- The workbook is a PDF with source code publicly available on github. There is an accompanying "solutionbook" that contains the solutions to the exercises. Since the workbook is a work-in-progress, it's best if the participants have a tabled/laptop to access to the online PDF.
- The participants have pencil, paper & eraser to solve the exercises.
- 3 to 4 teaching assistants that are able to help groups if they are stuck.
- Each duo gets a green, yellow and red card ("traffic light") that we use to gather feedback quickly.
- Blue and orange sticky notes, as well as thick markers and a wall to put them on.

### Algorithm
1. 15 minute quiz.
2. Put each participant in a random group consisting of two or three participants ("duo").Each participant physically moves next to their group member.
3. A TA gives a short intro (5 minutes?) to the next workbook section, putting the relevant part of the workbook on the projector.
4. The participants have about 40 minutes to work through the exercises in duos. We suggest to first read the section in silence, make notes, and then discuss with the partner. Exercises are typically solved with pencil, eraser and paper. If there are questions or a group is stuck, they raise their hands and a TA heads over. If there is an error in the workbook, or a clarification is needed, or if the same question is asked multiple times, we will temporarily stop the group work phase and try to address this for everyone. We also have the chance to update the workbook/solutionbook on github.
5. If a group is done with the "mandatory" exercises, they work on optional exercises.
6. If the exercise time is over, we ask the duos to hold up cards ("traffic light") to indicate whether they are done with the exercise. If few groups are done, we extend the time.
7. We pair two neighboring duos to form a quad. They are given about 20 minutes to compare their answers. We ask if there are volunteers to present the solutions.
8. Traffic light survey to see if enough quads have finished. A quad presents the solutions and we can see using the traffic light to see how deep we should go into the solutions. Make sure to let quads who showed a red card ask questions. Note that the solutions are also in the solutionbook.
9. If the day is over, do a "reflection sticky-note wall". Hand out blue and orange sticky notes and marker. Orange = "Still fuzzy about", blue = "aha moment/insight". Give 2 minutes, then take a few minutes to group sticky notes. Then do "synthesis panel" (for about 15 minutes) consisting of a lecturer, a moderator TA and two participant volunteers. The idea is summarize the day (what have we done, what is important), react to the sticky notes and allow for questions. Start the next day with 1.
10. If half a day has passed since assigning duos, it is a good time to reshuffle and go back to 2. Otherwise go to 3.

Commit message:

README: add LaTex dependencies for Debian

README.md, after:

# Crypto Workbook

## Build instructions

### Dependencies

You will need various LaTex dependencies in order to build the workbook. Here are the packages on various distributions.

#### Debian / Ubuntu

```
apt install latexmk texlive-publishers texlive-bibtex-extra texlive-science
```

#### Arch

TODO

#### NixOS

TODO

### Compiling

```sh
latexmk             # Compile the document
```

## Cryptocamp 2025

"Cryptocamp" is a 3.5 day event that attempts to teach developers the basics of provable cryptography. We have a workbook that consists of cryptographic definitions, propositions, proofs and exercises. The goal is to make the event interactive, fun and educational.

### Requirements
- Room with enough space to have groups of two that can work together without causing too much chaos.
- Projector to project the workbook on large screen.
- To share solutions to exercises, we'd ideally have an Ipad with Apple pen (or similar) connected to the projector. I can bring the Ipad.
- The workbook is a PDF with source code publicly available on github. There is an accompanying "solutionbook" that contains the solutions to the exercises. Since the workbook is a work-in-progress, it's best if the participants have a tabled/laptop to access to the online PDF.
- The participants have pencil, paper & eraser to solve the exercises.
- 3 to 4 teaching assistants that are able to help groups if they are stuck.
- Each duo gets a green, yellow and red card ("traffic light") that we use to gather feedback quickly.
- Blue and orange sticky notes, as well as thick markers and a wall to put them on.

### Algorithm
1. 15 minute quiz.
2. Put each participant in a random group consisting of two or three participants ("duo").Each participant physically moves next to their group member.
3. A TA gives a short intro (5 minutes?) to the next workbook section, putting the relevant part of the workbook on the projector.
4. The participants have about 40 minutes to work through the exercises in duos. We suggest to first read the section in silence, make notes, and then discuss with the partner. Exercises are typically solved with pencil, eraser and paper. If there are questions or a group is stuck, they raise their hands and a TA heads over. If there is an error in the workbook, or a clarification is needed, or if the same question is asked multiple times, we will temporarily stop the group work phase and try to address this for everyone. We also have the chance to update the workbook/solutionbook on github.
5. If a group is done with the "mandatory" exercises, they work on optional exercises.
6. If the exercise time is over, we ask the duos to hold up cards ("traffic light") to indicate whether they are done with the exercise. If few groups are done, we extend the time.
7. We pair two neighboring duos to form a quad. They are given about 20 minutes to compare their answers. We ask if there are volunteers to present the solutions.
8. Traffic light survey to see if enough quads have finished. A quad presents the solutions and we can see using the traffic light to see how deep we should go into the solutions. Make sure to let quads who showed a red card ask questions. Note that the solutions are also in the solutionbook.
9. If the day is over, do a "reflection sticky-note wall". Hand out blue and orange sticky notes and marker. Orange = "Still fuzzy about", blue = "aha moment/insight". Give 2 minutes, then take a few minutes to group sticky notes. Then do "synthesis panel" (for about 15 minutes) consisting of a lecturer, a moderator TA and two participant volunteers. The idea is summarize the day (what have we done, what is important), react to the sticky notes and allow for questions. Start the next day with 1.
10. If half a day has passed since assigning duos, it is a good time to reshuffle and go back to 2. Otherwise go to 3.
